In the last lectures, we learned a lot about how we can use property binding and string interpolation to output
data in the template,
let's now react to events.
For example we have a button here
and after two seconds, this button is enabled, so it would be nice we could do something once we clicked the
button.
Now I will soon show you how we can actually add a new server, how we can add a new replication of our
server selector, of our server component here,
for now what I want to do is I want to output something.
I will remove this text here and instead here, I want to output the value of a property. I'll create this
property
and again you may ignore ngOnInit for now, I will come back to this,
I will name it serverCreationStatus and initially I will set it to no server was created, like this.
Now this property can be output via string interpolation, serverCreationStatus
and I just told you I don't want to continue outputting data,
we want to listen to events.
So I promised it, we'll do it.
I will add another method below here and I will name this method onCreateServer, the on at the beginning
to kind of make clear that this will be triggered from within my template,
you don't have to name it on something but it kind of makes it easier to understand who will call this
method.
Well, the user will basically by doing something, some event will call it, that is what I want to symbolize
with that.
So in here, I will set the serverCreationStatus to server was created.
So the missing piece of course is to call this method
and now here is where event binding comes into play. We want to listen to this click event here
and typically, you have the onClick attribute on the HTML element where you can now execute some Javascript
code.
We won't use that with Angular though,
here we have the syntax Angular offers us, event binding which uses parentheses, like property binding
used square brackets, for events
parentheses are the signal that we're using event binding
and here, we have to specify the name of the event between the parentheses,
for example click and you can basically bind to all the events made available by the HTML attribute
you're placing this on.
So if you have onClick, onMouseEnter, you could bind to click mouse enter without the on at the beginning.
So we bind to the click event
and now between the quotation marks, we put the code we want to execute
once this event occurs. Now oftentimes, you will call a method here,
so let's do this. Let's point to the method we want to execute which is onCreateServer with parentheses,
so this method will now get executed whenever we click the button.
As a side note, you don't have to execute a method here,
you could also put the code you want to execute right between the quotation marks.
Oftentimes this is not very good because you want to execute more code if some event happens
but if all you want to do is set some boolean property to true for example, well
you can definitely do this inline the template, as a general rule though, you shouldn't put too much logic
into your templates though.
So now we're binding the click event and we execute onCreateServer method when it occurs,
so let's see this in action. In our application,
let's reload the page,
the button gets enabled and now watch this part here,
if I click the button, it changes to server was created because we are triggering our own method here.
And this is how a simple event binding works,
use parentheses, the
event name in between and then between the quotation marks, the code you want to execute
when this event occurs.